The & calls to_proc on the object, and passes it as a block to the method. In Ruby, to_proc is implemented on Symbol

the exact semantics of || are:

if first expression is not nil or false, return it
if first expression is nil or false, return the second expression

Any Ruby object can be frozen by using the freeze method. When an object is frozen, any attempt to change this object will result in a RuntimeError exception.

Foo.new create a new instance of Foo and before Foo.new returns, call the new
object's initialize method with all the arguments passed to Foo.new

class constant: starts with a capital letter instead of @@. Should not mutate
it. Publicly visible. To access, use :: ,e.g., Math::PI

conditials treats everything but false and nil as true

But blocks are not objects. can NOT pass them as arguments to a method.
Rather, any method can be passed either 0 or 1 blocks, sepearte from the other
arguments.

inject is like fold

map, select (filter in ML), any?, all?

Blocks are NOT closures because they are not objects => they are not
"first-class values", which is something that can be stored and passed like
anything else in the language

Suppose we want to create an array of blocks => cant because array holds
objects are blocks are not objects, but we can use lambda to create an array
of instances of Proc

```ruby
c = a.map {|x| lambda {|y| x >= y}}

c[2].call 17
j = c.count {|x| x.call(5)}

```

### Dynamic dispatch explained

support we have call e0.m(e1,....,en)

1.Evaluate e0,e1,...en to values obj0, obj1,...,objn
2.Get the calss of obj0 (think of the class as part of the state of obj0)
3.Suppose obj0 has class A, if m is defined in A, call that method. Otherwise, call the super classes recursivly
4.bind self to obj0 (different from FP), obj1...objn to x1....xn

Step 4 is what called "late-binding", "dynamic dispatch", "virtual method call"


### Dynamic dispatch vs Closures

Example: two ML functions
=> this creates two closures that both have the other closure in their environment => lexical scoping => subclass and dynamic dispatch would violate it

Overriding and dynamic dispatch is the biggest thing that distinguishes oop from functional programming
