While it may seem surprising, your merchant descriptor is one of the strongest lines of defense against customer disputes. A merchant descriptor is what appears on a cardholder’s statement after they make a purchase; it’s goal is to identify the transaction to the cardholder

Soft descriptors, also called pending descriptors, appear after a transaction has been authorized but is not yet settled. Pending transactions will always display soft descriptors. While the soft descriptor is typically representative of the static descriptor, some issuing banks will display the payment service provider name instead of the merchant’s name

Stripe acknowledges this frustration, but reminds merchants that pending transactions can’t be disputed, so little hassle should be created.

Static descriptors, also called hard descriptors or default billing descriptors, appear after a transaction is settled. This is what’s permanently displayed on the cardholder’s billing statement.

Static descriptors typically consist of two variables: a DBA name and location information. Your DBA, or doing business as, name must be less than 22 characters and the location information field must be less than 11 characters. For many businesses, using the city field for a web address or phone number is a better use of the 11 characters of space.

After you create your merchant descriptors, whether dynamic or static, run test transactions through different issuing banks. Doing so allows you to view the descriptor as it will appear to customers and the different formats it may take. This way, you can ensure your descriptor is easily understandable and immediately recognizable to the cardholder.

To get started, just pass the statement_descriptor parameter when creating a charge

You can also specify a statement_descriptor on a plan. If you do this, all subscription charges created will automatically have this dynamic descriptor

By default, your Stripe account’s statement descriptor appears on customer statements whenever you charge their card. To provide a different description on a per-charge basis, include the statement_descriptor parameter.

```python

# Set your secret key: remember to change this to your live secret key in production
# See your keys here: https://dashboard.stripe.com/account/apikeys
stripe.api_key = "sk_test_BQokikJOvBiI2HlWgH4olfQ2"

# Token is created using Checkout or Elements!
# Get the payment token ID submitted by the form:
token = request.form['stripeToken'] # Using Flask

charge = stripe.Charge.create(
    amount=999,
    currency='usd',
    description='Example charge',
    source=token,
    statement_descriptor='Custom descriptor',
)

```

Statement descriptors are limited to 22 characters, cannot use the special characters <, >, ', or ", and must not consist solely of numbers.



