localStorge values on Secure (SSL) pages are isolated. So if your site has both http and https pages you will not be able to access the values set on an http page when visiting an https page

Cookies are primarily for reading server-side, local storage can only be read by the client-side. 

HTML5 has session scoped storage that can be used as a replacement for session cookies

Cookies, when used with the HttpOnly cookie flag, are not accessible through JavaScript, and are immune to XSS. You can also set the Secure cookie flag to guarantee the cookie is only sent over HTTPS. 

Cookies as a storage mechanism do not require state to be stored on the server if you are storing a JWT in the cookie. This is because the JWT encapsulates everything the server needs to serve the request.

cookies are vulnerable to a different type of attack: cross-site request forgery (CSRF). A cookie can only be sent to the domains in which it is allowed. By default, this is the domain that originally set the cookie. T

Cookies
* Expiration dates
* Cookies can be marked as HTTPOnly which might limit XSS atacks to user browser during his sesion (does not guarantee full immunity to XSS atacks).
* Each domain stores all its cookies in a single string, which can make parsing data difficult
* Data is unencrypted, which becomes an issue because... ... though small in size, cookies are sent with every HTTP request Limited size (4KB)

Local storage
* Same-origin rules apply to local storage data
* Is not sent with every HTTP request
* ~5MB storage per domain (that's 5120KB)
* If the server needs stored client information you purposely have to send it.

Very important to consider the logout scenario! 

separate authen and authorization filter

Refresh tokens are stored in DB and will have long expiration (example: 1 month).

Managing it at the microservice level is definitely a simpler and more straight forward approach. For us, the reason why we chose a central authorization is because we want to be able to create new permissions and map them to endpoints directly via a UI. This is especially important since we have different apps that might be accessing the same endpoints and different permissions will need access to those endpoints.


Google Cloud Endpoints handles both API keys and authentication schemes (such as Firebase or Auth0). The main distinction between these two is:

API keys identify the calling project — the app or site — making the call to an API

Auth tokens identify a user — the person — that is using the app or site

-------

Relying party applications, such as web applications, outsource the user authentication step to a trusted identity provider. Such a relying party application is said to be federated, that is, it consumes federated identity.

A federated identity in information technology is the means of linking a person's electronic identity and attributes, stored across multiple distinct identity management systems

An identity provider is “a trusted provider that lets you use single sign-on (SSO) to access other websites.”

---------

You can also implement your own provider if you have users in other stores, such as a relational database.

support cross-origin resource sharing, allowing you to interact securely with our API from a client-side web application (though you should never expose your secret API key in any public website's client-side code

### stripe

To make the API as explorable as possible, accounts have test mode and live mode API keys. There is no "switch" for changing between modes, just use the appropriate key to perform a live or test transaction.

You can manage your API keys in the Dashboard

The first, preferred, authentication option is to use your—the platform account’s—secret key and pass a Stripe-Account header identifying the connected account for which the request is being mad

Authentication to the API is performed via HTTP Basic Auth. 

```bash

curl https://api.stripe.com/v1/charges \
   -u sk_test_iwnQbKpz0qQHowAuJAowMnJa:

```
