You can also implement your own provider if you have users in other stores, such as a relational database.

In a standard OAuth, the key is created by the each site. In OpenID Connect, the keys are created by the UserInfo Endpoint. In another word, site X,Y,Z knows how to understand the keys provided by the UserInfo endpoint. For this to happen, the sites must (1) Trust the key providing party (2) be able to verify the validity of the keys. To achieve this, OpenID Connect uses JSON Web Token (JWT) as the format for the key (Access Token) using some cryptography

------

Log in to the User Account Service of your demo realm with the user you just created by clicking this link:

.../bin/standalone.sh -Djboss.socket.binding.port-offset=100

------

If you just want to test drive Keycloak, it pretty much runs out of the box with its own embedded and local-only database.
Keycloak is built on top of the WildFly application server and it’s sub-projects like Infinispan (for caching) and Hibernate (for persistence). This guide only covers basics for infrastructure-level configuration

On Linux, it is recommended to use /dev/urandom as a source of random data to prevent Keycloak hanging due to lack of available entropy, unless /dev/random usage is mandated by your security policy. To achieve that on Oracle JDK 8 and OpenJDK 8, set the java.security.egd system property on startup to file:/dev/urandom


Standalone operating mode is only useful when you want to run one, and only one Keycloak server instance. It is not usable for clustered deployments and all caches are non-distributed and local-only. It is not recommended that you use standalone mode in production as you will have a single point of failure.

In the standalone operation mode, this file lives in .../standalone/configuration/standalone.xml. This file is also used to configure non-infrastructure level things that are specific to Keycloak components.

------
This mode can be very easy to deploy initially, but can become quite cumbersome. To make a configuration change you’ll have to modify each distribution on each machine. For a large cluster this can become time consuming and error pron

This file resides in .../standalone/configuration/standalone-ha.xml. There’s a few things missing from this configuration. You can’t run Keycloak in a cluster without a configuring a shared database connection. You also need to deploy some type of load balancer in front of the cluster

You use the same boot scripts to start Keycloak as you do in standalone mode. The difference is that you pass in an additional flag to point to the HA config file.

A database is used to persist permanent data, such as user information.

An Infinispan cache 


