These are typically 30 to 60 minute weekly or bi-weekly meetings in which the two of you discuss their performance, roadblocks they may experiencing and career goals. This can also be an opportunity to discuss broader issues of team cohesion, interpersonal conflicts, and how the business is doing.

Regular one-on-one time with your team members is precious.  This may be the only time in which many developers feel comfortable asking for help or voicing concerns about the direction of the team or company.

Do your best to stick to the plan, and be on time and mentally present for every one-on-one.

I would advise against opening with “So how is the sprint/your work going?" - You’re the boss—you should already know the answer. If you’re paying attention to daily stand-ups and company chats, and examining your task board, you’ll go into your one-on-ones with a solid understanding of where things stand. Therefore, use this precious time to focus on these higher-order topics:

Company direction
Career development
Conflict resolution
Constructive feedback

In a 30-minute meeting, I’d recommend spending the first 10 minutes discussing the company or team-wide issues, which includes clarifying any major recent announcements or changes of plan. As a manager, you likely spend a lot of your time thinking about long-term planning and business objectives, and it can be easy to forget that your team doesn’t have the context you do. If you take the time to pass this information on to them, it should have a noticeable impact on their understanding of your team’s mission and their place on it.

Next, give any specific feedback you have about their performance and how they’re progressing on any specific goals you may have previously discussed with them. It’s not enough to wait for that biannual performance review to give actionable feedback to your colleagues. If you want them to be their best selves, you should take every opportunity possible to coach and guide them.

Finally, open up the discussion for questions and dialogue. Make sure to leave a good chunk of time for this. Try to be inviting and personable, and remind your colleague that he should feel comfortable bringing up anything that’s confusing or troubling to them. It’s highly likely that you won’t have great answers to all of his questions, so be sure to take notes so that you can follow up later.

Personally, I prefer the “walking meeting,” where we stroll around the block or go to a nearby park while we talk. Something about being out of doors and moving your body has a loosening effect on the stiffness of office interactions.

Whether it’s feedback you delivered that you want to revisit in a few weeks, a question your colleague asked that you didn’t have a great answer for, or an idea one of you had for how to make the next sprint go more smoothly, do you what you need to in order to remember it and follow up!

You can even share these notes with your colleague if you think that may be resourceful for them.
