Vault can generate secrets on-demand for some systems, such as AWS or SQL databases. For example, when an application needs to access an S3 bucket, it asks Vault for credentials, and Vault will generate an AWS keypair with valid permissions on demand. After creating these dynamic secrets, Vault will also automatically revoke them after the lease is up

Vault can encrypt and decrypt data without storing it. This allows security teams to define encryption parameters and developers to store encrypted data in a location such as SQL without having to design their own encryption methods.

All secrets in Vault have a lease associated with them. At the end of the lease, Vault will automatically revoke that secret. Clients are able to renew leases via built-in renew APIs.

The "dynamic secrets" feature of Vault is ideal for scripts: an AWS access key can be generated for the duration of a script, then revoked. The keypair will not exist before or after the script runs, and the creation of the keys are completely logged.

This is an improvement over using something like Amazon IAM but still effectively hardcoding limited-access access tokens in various places.


While Consul can be used to store secret information and gate access using ACLs, it is not designed for that purpose. As such, data is not encrypted in transit nor at rest, it does not have pluggable authentication mechanisms, and there is no per-request auditing mechanism.

The strength of Consul is that it is fault tolerant and highly scalable. By using Consul as a backend to Vault, you get the best of both. Consul is used for durable storage of encrypted data at rest and provides coordination so that Vault can be highly available and fault tolerant. Vault provides the higher level policy management, secret leasing, audit logging, and automatic revocation.

Vault forces a mandatory lease contract with clients. All secrets read from Vault have an associated lease which enables operations to audit key usage, perform key rolling, and ensure automatic revocation. Vault provides multiple revocation mechanisms to give operators a clear "break glass" procedure after a potential compromise.

The Vault server is the only piece of the Vault architecture that interacts with the data storage and backends

the aws backend generates AWS access keys dynamically, on demand.

Token authentication is enabled by default in Vault and cannot be disabled

Initialization outputs two incredibly important pieces of information: the unseal keys and the initial root token. This is the only time ever that all of this data is known by Vault, and also the only time that the unseal keys should ever be so close together.

The process of teaching Vault how to decrypt the data is known as unsealing the Vault.

Vault behaves a lot like a virtual filesystem. The read/write/delete operations are forwarded to the backend, and the backend can choose to react to these operations however it wishes. For example, the kv backend simply passes this through to the storage backend (after encrypting data first).

However, the aws backend (which you'll see soon), will read/write IAM policies and access tokens. So, while you might do a vault read aws/deploy, this isn't reading from the physical path aws/deploy. Instead, the AWS backend is dynamically generating an access key based on the deploy policy.
