/var is a standard subdirectory that contains files to which the system writes data during the course of its operation.

/usr, which is generally the largest directory (at least on a newly installed system) and is used to store application programs, should only contain static data.

/var/lib (contains dynamic data libraries and files), 

/var/lock (contains lock files created by programs to indicate that they are using a particular file or device),

/var/log (contains log files),

The .d suffix here means directory. the goal is to avoid name clashing, not between the executable and the configuration file but between the former monolithic configuration file and the directory containing them.

/etc Contains system-wide configuration files and system databases;

/proc/net/, a directory containing useful information about the network stack, in particular /proc/net/nf_conntrack, which lists existing network connections (particularly useful for tracking routing when iptables FORWARD is used to redirect network connections)

The /dev directory contains the special device files for all the devices. The device files are created during installation,

/dev/hda is the master IDE drive on the primary IDE controller. /dev/hdb the slave drive on the primary controller. /dev/hdc , and /dev/hdd are the master and slave devices on the secondary controller respectively

/dev/null This can be useful if, for example, you wish to run a command but not have any feedback appear on the terminal.

/dev/random is a non-deterministic generator which means that the value of the next number cannot be guessed from the preceding ones. It uses the entropy of the system hardware to generate numbers. When it has no more entropy to use then it must wait until it has collected more before it will allow any more numbers to be read from it.

tmpfs
--------
tmpfs is a common name for a temporary file storage facility on many Unix-like operating systems. It is intended to appear as a mounted file system, but stored in volatile memory instead of a persistent storage device. A similar construction is a RAM disk, which appears as a virtual disk drive and hosts a disk file system.

Everything stored in tmpfs is temporary in the sense that no files will be created on the hard drive; however, swap space is used as backing store in case of low memory situations.

Many Unix distributions enable and use tmpfs by default for the /tmp branch of the file system or for shared memory.


PID
--------
In Unix-like operating systems, new processes are created by the fork() system call. The PID is returned to the parent enabling it to refer to the child in further function calls. The parent may, for example, wait for the child to terminate with the waitpid() function, or terminate the process with kill().

swapper or sched has process ID 0 and is responsible for paging, and is actually part of the kernel rather than a normal user-mode process. Process ID 1 is usually the init process primarily responsible for starting and shutting down the system.

The normal location for pidfiles is /var/run. Most unices will clean this directory on boot; under Ubuntu this is achieved by /var/run an in-memory filesystem (tmpfs).

If you start your daemon from a script that's running as root, have it create a subdirectory /var/run/gmooredaemon and chown it to the daemon-running user before suing to the user and starting the daemon.

On many modern Linux systems, if you start the daemon from a script or launcher that isn't running as root, you can put the pidfile in /run/user/$UID, which is a per-user equivalent of the traditional /var/run. Note that the root part of the launcher, or a boot script running as root, needs to create the directory (for a human user, the directory is created when the user logs in).

Otherwise, pick a location under /tmp or /var/tmp, but this introduces additional complexity because the pidfile's name can't be uniquely determined if it's in a world-writable directory.


For anything that sources /etc/init.d/functions, the PID will live in /var/run/program_name.pid

when compiling nginx:

```
--pid-path=/var/run/nginx.pid \
--lock-path=/var/lock/nginx.lock \
```

It's a signal to other processes and users of the system that that particular program is running, or at least started successfully.
It allows one to write a script really easy to check if it's running and issue a plain kill command if one wants to end it.
It's a cheap way for a program to see if a previous running instance of it did not exit successfully.

/opt is used to install 'self-contained' applications, so nothing wrong here. Using /opt/my_app/etc/ for config files, /opt/my_app/log/ for logs and so on - common practice for this kind of application.

Lock files are used by programs to ensure two (well-behaved) separate instances of a program, which may be running concurrently on one system, don't access something else at the same time. The idea is before the program accesses its resource, it checks for presence of a lock file, and if the lock file exists, either error out or wait for it to go away. When it doesn't exist, the program wanting to "acquire" the resource creates the file, and then other instances that might come across later will wait for this process to be done with it. Of course, this assumes the program "acquiring" the lock does in fact release it and doesn't forget to delete the lock file. (checkout /var/lock)

These files are often used by daemons that should only be run once on a system. The PID file usually contains the process ID number of the already launched and running program if one exists. Also, when it starts up, it creates the lock file. As long as the lock file exists, it won't start another one without user intervention. If the lock file exists and the process id mentioned in the pid file isn't running, the daemon is considered to be in a "dead" state, meaning it's supposed to be running but isn't probably due to a crash or improper shutdown. This might initiate a special startup / restart scenario for some programs. Properly shutting it down will remove the lock file.

Please explain why both a PID file and a lock file would be used. It seems a PID file would be sufficient. If the PID file exists, the PID could be checked to see if the process is running, just takes less steps than check for a lockfile, checking for a PID file, and then verifying the existence of the process. 
To avoid race conditions if nothing else. Some apps have uses for times when the still need the PID but can relinquish the lock. But at a more fundamental level if you overload one file for both operations you open the door to failures such as a crash leaving an inconsistent state on the system.
