# Loader
Part of OS. Once it is done, it will pass control to the loaded program code

In many operating systems the loader is permanently resident in memory, although some operating systems that support virtual memory may allow the loader to be located in a region of memory that is pageable.

In the case of operating systems that support virtual memory, the loader may not actually copy the contents of executable files into memory, but rather may simply declare to the virtual memory subsystem that there is a mapping between a region of memory allocated to contain the running program's code and the contents of the associated executable file.

# Linker

takes one or more object files generated by a compiler and combines them into a single executable file, library file, or another 'object' file.

A simpler version that writes its output directly to memory is called the loader, though loading is typically considered a separate process.

defined "external" symbols, sometimes called "public" or "entry" symbols, which allow it to be called by other modules,

undefined "external" symbols, which reference other modules where these symbols are defined, and

local symbols, used internally within the object file to facilitate relocation.

#Object file

In order to be used, object code must either be placed in an executable file, a library file, or an object file.

Object code is a portion of machine code that has not yet been linked into a complete program. It is the machine code for one particular library or module that will make up the completed product. It may also contain placeholders or offsets, not found in the machine code of a completed program, that the linker will use to connect everything together. Whereas machine code is binary code that can be executed directly by the CPU, object code has the jumps partially parameterized so that a linker can fill them in.
