Spring Cloud already supports both Eureka and Consul

@EnableEurekaServer
Standing up an instance of the Eureka service registry that other applications can talk to

Spring Cloud will startup a Eureka instance with its Spring Boot auto-configuration. 
Spring Cloud Eureka sample shows how to deploy it in a highly-available configuration.

@EnableDiscoveryClient activates the Netflix Eureka DiscoveryClient implementation. There are other implementations for other service registries like Hashicorp’s Consul or Apache Zookeeper.

Whatever implementation you choose, you’ll soon see the eureka-client registered under whatever name you specify in the spring.application.name property. This property is used a lot in Spring Cloud, often in the earliest phases of a service’s configuration. This property is used in service bootstrap and so by convention lives in eureka-client/src/main/resources/bootstrap.properties where it’s found before src/main/resources/application.properties.

t the end-to-end result by starting the eureka-service first and then, once loaded, starting the eureka-client. The eureka-client will take about a minute to register itself in the registry and to refresh its own list of registered instances from the registry. 

http://localhost:8080/service-instances/a-bootiful-client. 

At Netflix, Eureka is used for the following purposes apart from playing a critical part in mid-tier load balancing.

For aiding Netflix Asgard - an open source service which makes cloud deployments easier, in

Fast rollback of versions in case of problems avoiding the re-launch of 100's of instances which could take a long time.
In rolling pushes, for avoiding propagation of a new version to all instances in case of problems.
For our cassandra deployments to take instances out of traffic for maintenance.

For our memcached caching services to identify the list of nodes in the ring.

For carrying other additional application specific metadata about services for various other reasons.

The client also has a built-in load balancer that does basic round-robin load balancing. At Netflix, a much more sophisticated load balancer wraps Eureka to provide weighted load balancing based on several factors like traffic, resource usage, error conditions etc to provide superior resiliency.

Unlike the traditional load balancers which work with servers with well known IP addresses and host names, in AWS, load balancing requires much more sophistication in registering and de-registering servers with load balancer on the fly.

Eureka fills the need for mid-tier load balancing. While you can theoretically put your mid-tier services behind the AWS ELB, in EC2 classic you expose them to the outside world and there by losing all the usefulness of the AWS security groups.

AWS ELB is also a traditional proxy-based load balancing solution whereas with Eureka it is different in that the load balancing happens at the instance/server/host level. The client instances know all the information about which servers they need to talk to

At Netflix, we prefer our services to be stateless (non-sticky). 

Another important aspect that differentiates proxy-based load balancing from load balancing using Eureka is that your application can be resilient to the outages of the load balancers, since the information regarding the available servers is cached on the client. This does require a small amount of memory, but buys better resiliency.

Eureka is analogous to internal DNS and has nothing to do with the DNS servers across the world. Eureka is also region-isolated in the sense that it does not know about servers in other AWS regions. It's primary purpose of holding information is for load balancing within a region.

You typically run in the AWS cloud and you have a host of middle tier services which you do not want to register with AWS ELB or expose traffic from outside world. You are either looking for a simple round-robin load balancing solution or are willing to write your own wrapper around Eureka based on your load balancing need. You do not have the need for sticky sessions and load session data in an external cache such as memcached. More importantly, if your architecture fits the model where a client based load balancer is favored, Eureka is well positioned to fit that usage
There is one eureka cluster per region which knows only about instances in its region. There is at the least one eureka server per zone to handle zone failures.

Services register with Eureka and then send heartbeats to renew their leases every 30 seconds. If the client cannot renew the lease for a few times, it is taken out of the server registry in about 90 seconds. The registration information and the renewals are replicated to all the eureka nodes in the cluster. 

3 parts - Eureka Server/Application Server/Application Client

With Eureka you can add or remove cluster nodes on the fly. You can tune the internal configurations from timeouts to thread pools. Eureka uses archaius and if you had a configuration source implementation a lot of these configurations can be tuned dynamically

Eureka uses servo to track a lot information in both the client and the server for performance, monitoring and alerting.The data is typically available in the JMX registry

Application Client which uses Eureka Client to make requests to the Application Service.

Eureka Server
Eureka Client for the application client
Eureka Client for the application service

If you are running in the cloud environment, you will need to pass in the java commandline property -Deureka.datacenter=cloud so that the Eureka Client/Server knows to initialize the information specific to AWS cloud.

By default, Eureka client searches for the property file eureka-client.properties in the classpath. It further searches for environment specific overrides in the environment specific properties files. The environment is typically test or prod and is supplied by a -Deureka.environment java commandline switch to the eureka client (without the .properties suffix). Accordingly, the client also searches for eureka-client-{test,prod}.properties.

--------
The properties in the files explain what they are for. At the minimum the following things need to be configured:

Application Name (eureka.name)
Application Port (eureka.port)
Virtual HostName (eureka.vipAddress)
Eureka Service Urls (eureka.serviceUrls)


The easiest way to configure Eureka Server is by using property files similar to the Eureka Client above. First, configure the Eureka client that is running with the server as specified above. Eureka server itself fires up a Eureka Client that it uses to find other Eureka Servers. Therefore, you need to first configure the Eureka Client for the Eureka Server as you would do with any other clients that connect to the Eureka service. The Eureka Server will use its Eureka Client configuration to identify peer eureka server that have the same name (ie) eureka.name

After configuring the Eureka Client, you may need to configure the Eureka Server if you are running in AWS. Eureka server by default searches for property file eureka-server.properties in the classpath.

When running eureka server for local development, there is typically a wait of ~3 minutes until it fulling boots up. This is due to the default server behaviour to search for peers to sync up and retries when it finds no available peers. This wait time can be reduced by setting the property eureka.numberRegistrySyncRetries=0

When running eureka server for local development, there is typically a wait of ~3 minutes until it fulling boots up. This is due to the default server behaviour to search for peers to sync up and retries when it finds no available peers. This wait time can be reduced by setting the property eureka.numberRegistrySyncRetries=0.

In general, it's always safer to have the servers be on a newer version than clients.

In addition, eureka server replication can be batched to improve efficiency. To enable batched replication, set eureka. shouldBatchReplication=true

Eureka client starts in STARTING state which gives the instance a chance to do application-specific initializations, before it can serve traffic

The application then can explicitly put the instance for traffic, by turning the instance status to UP.

At Netflix, we also use the OUT_OF_SERVICE status, primarily for taking an instance out of traffic. It is used for easy rollback of deployments of new revisions in case of problems. Most applications create a new ASG for a new revision and the traffic gets routed the new ASGs. In the case of problems, rolling back a revision is just a matter of turning off the traffic by setting all instances in the ASG to OUT_OF_SERVICE.

In AWS cloud, make sure you retry on failures and keep the timeouts low, because there could be scenarios where Eureka server could return instances that no longer exists in the case of outages.

Eureka clients fetches the registry information from the server and caches it locally. After that, the clients use that information to find other services. This information is updated periodically (every 30 seconds) by getting the delta updates between the last fetch cycle and the current one. The delta information is held longer (for about 3 mins) in the server, hence the delta fetches may return the same instances again. The Eureka client automatically handles the duplicate information.

fter getting the deltas, Eureka client reconciles the information with the server by comparing the instance counts returned by the server and if the information does not match for some reason, the whole registry information is fetched again. 

Once the server starts receiving traffic, all of the operations that is performed on the server is replicated to all of the peer nodes that the server knows about. If an operation fails for some reason, the information is reconciled on the next heartbeat that also gets replicated between servers.

Registrations may happen in an orphaned server and some clients may reflect new registrations while the others may not.
The situation autocorrects itself after the network connectivity is restored to a stable state. When the peers are able to communicate fine, the registration information is automatically transferred to the servers that do not have them.

Netflix Feign Client?
