pushd and popd for quick dir navigation

Ctrl + e – go to the end of the command line

Ctrl + k – delete from cursor to the end of the command line

Ctrl + u – delete from cursor to the start of the command line

Ctrl + w – delete from cursor to start of word (i.e. delete backwards one word)

Press Control+R and type the keyword to search for command history

& will not terminate in SIGINT, i.e., the one sent by Ctrl + C, but will terminate on SIGHUP,i.e, end the session. With nohup, have to use kill command

Ctrl + Z setps SIGTSTP, it will hangout in the process -> can use the `jobs` to see stopped process, use `bg` to restore it to see stopped process, use `bg` to restore it. Overall, very similar to gedit &

Note that `kill` accepts job id too, but need to put `%` in front of the id, otherwise, it will be treated as PID.

Linux systems, that log is managed by systemd, the “system daemon”, which controls all the services that run in the background (and much much more at this point). That log is accessible through the somewhat inconvenient journalctl tool if you are root, or part of the admin or wheel groups.

For journalctl, you should be aware of these flags in particular:

-u UNIT: show only messages related to the given systemd service
--full: don’t truncate long lines (the stupidest feature)
-b: only show messages from the latest boot (see also -b -2)
-n100: only show last 100 entries

To configure services, you pretty much have to interact with systemd these days, for better or for worse. Most services on your system will have a systemd service file that defines a systemd unit. These files define what command to run when that services is started, how to stop it, where to log things, etc. They’re usually not too bad to read, and you can find most of them in /usr/lib/systemd/system/. You can also define your own in /etc/systemd/system .

Once you have a systemd service in mind, you use the systemctl

the & suffix runs a program “in the background”
it will give you back your prompt immediately
handy if you want to run two programs at the same time like a server and client: server & client
note that the running program still has your terminal as STDOUT! try: server > server.log & client
see all such processes with jobs

bring it to the foreground with fg %JOB (no argument is latest)

if you want to background the current program: ^Z + bg (Here ^Z means pressing Ctrl+Z)
^Z stops the current process and makes it a “job”
bg runs the last job in the background (as if you did &)

$! is pid of last background process

most common: SIGKILL (-9 or -KILL): tell it to exit now equivalent to ^\
also SIGTERM (-15 or -TERM): tell it to exit gracefully equivalent to ^C

Not every command is available globally. In this case, you have to provide the path to the command’s program file in order to run it.e.g., `../command-in-parent-directory`

tree [path] - recursively listing files

If you’re working in python, coin, bash or any other program that repeatedly gets input from you while it’s running, you can almost always make the program exit by pressing ^D (or end of file, commonly abbreviated EOF).

jobs, bg, and fg commands 

Enclosing characters in double quotes (") preserves the literal value of all characters within the quotes, with the exception of $, `, \, and, when history expansion is enabled, !.

This means that strings enclosed in double quotes will still have variables expanded and command substitution performed.

the file you’re going to be using abundantly to configure your prompt is the .bashrc file on Linux and the .bash_profile on OSX 

Changes to environment variables won’t persist across logins; if you want them to be available and set to the same value, you’ll have to add them to your ~/.bashrc.
