raw string

multi-line string literal

Two or more string literals (i.e. the ones enclosed between quotes) next to each other are automatically concatenated

Indices may also be negative numbers, to start counting from the right: -1 is the right most char

word[0:2]  # characters from position 0 (included) to 2 (excluded)

However, out of range slice indexes are handled gracefully when used for slicing

Python strings cannot be changed — they are immutable. Therefore, assigning to an indexed position in the string results in an error:

The built-in function len() returns the length of a string

You can also add new items at the end of the list, by using the append() method

The built-in function len() also applies to lists

In Python, like in C, any non-zero integer value is true; zero is false

Python’s for statement iterates over the items of any sequence (a list or a string

Loop statements may have an else clause; it is executed when the loop terminates through exhaustion of the list (with for) or when the condition becomes false (with while), but not when the loop is terminated by a break statement. This is exemplified by the following loop, which searches for prime numbers

The pass statement does nothing. It can be used when a statement is required syntactically but the program requires no action. 

Important warning: The default value is evaluated only once. This makes a difference when the default is a mutable object such as a list, dictionary, or instances of most classes.

List comprehension?

Tuples are immutable, and usually contain a heterogeneous sequence of elements that are accessed via unpacking (see later in this section) or indexing (or even by attribute in the case of namedtuples). Lists are mutable, and their elements are usually homogeneous and are accessed by iterating over the list.

Curly braces or the set() function can be used to create sets. Note: to create an empty set you have to use set(), not {}; the latter creates an empty dictionary, a data structure that we discuss in the next section.

When looping through dictionaries, the key and corresponding value can be retrieved at the same time using the items() method.

When looping through a sequence, the position index and corresponding value can be retrieved at the same time using the enumerate() function.

To loop over two or more sequences at the same time, the entries can be paired with the zip() function.

To loop over a sequence in reverse, first specify the sequence in a forward direction and then call the reversed() function.

To loop over a sequence in sorted order, use the sorted() function which returns a new sorted list while leaving the source unaltered.

The comparison operators in and not in check whether a value occurs (does not occur) in a sequence. The operators is and is not compare whether two objects are really the same object; this only matters for mutable objects like lists. All comparison operators have the same priority, which is lower than that of all numerical operators.

between them, not has the highest priority and or the lowest, so that A and not B or C is equivalent to (A and (not B)) or C.

Modules
--------

A module is a file containing Python definitions and statements. The file name is the module name with the suffix .py appended. Within a module, the module’s name (as a string) is available as the value of the global variable __name__

the code in the module will be executed, just as if you imported it, but with the __name__ set to "__main__". That means that by adding this code at the end of your module:

you can make the file usable as a script as well as an importable module, because the code that parses the command line only runs if the module is executed as the “main” file:

The Module Search Path?

The directory containing the script being run is placed at the beginning of the search path, ahead of the standard library path. This means that scripts in that directory will be loaded instead of modules of the same name in the library directory.

Packages?


IO
-------

For objects which don’t have a particular representation for human consumption, str() will return the same value as repr(). Many values, such as numbers or structures like lists and dictionaries, have the same representation using either function.

The brackets and characters within them (called format fields) are replaced with the objects passed into the str.format() method


If you define a variable at the top level of your script or module or notebook, this is a global variable:

The variable is global because any Python function or class defined in this module or notebook, is able to access this variable. For example:


