Every HTTP connection on a machine opens a new file (technically a file descriptor). Operating systems may set a low limit for the maximum number of files that can be open. If the limit is less than the number of simulated users in a test, failures will occur.

Another way we could declare tasks, which is usually more convenient, is to use the @task decorator. The following code is equivalent to the above

web ui at http://127.0.0.1:8089

A locust class represents one user (or a swarming locust if you will). Locust will spawn (hatch) one instance of the locust class for each user that is being simulated

The task_set attribute should point to a TaskSet class which defines the behaviour of the user

min_wait and max_wait attributes. These are the minimum and maximum time respectively, in milliseconds, that a simulated user will wait between executing each task. min_wait and max_wait default to 1000

You can run two locusts from the same file like so.....

The host attribute is a URL prefix (i.e. “https://google.com”) to the host that is to be loaded.

Nesting TaskSets will therefore allow us to define a behaviour that simulates users in a more realistic way.

If we didn’t have a call to the interrupt() method somewhere in ForumPage, the Locust would never stop running the ForumPage task once it has started. But by having the interrupt function, we can—together with task weighting—define how likely it is that a simulated user leaves the forum.

Setups, Teardowns, on_start, and on_stop....

To help us do this, the HttpLocust class exists. When using this class, each instance gets a client attribute which will be an instance of HttpSession which can be used to make HTTP requests.

Grouping requests to URLs with dynamic parameters...

Common libraries and project structure...


