Conneciton timout LTE 2s
Read timeout should be slightly greater than the server side execution time

The effectiveness of a set of tests can be measured less by their rate of problem detection and more by the rate of change that they enable.

You're probably not doing microservices if:

* You have compliance controls that apply uniformly to all services.
* You can't do one-click deployments and rollbacks.

In a world of permissionless innovation, services can and should routinely come and go. It's worth investing some effort to make it easier to deprecate services that haven't meaningfully caught on. One approach to doing this is to have a sufficiently high degree of competition for resources so that any resource-constrained team that is responsible for a languishing service is drawn to spending most of their time on other services that matter more to customers.

As this occurs, responsibility for the unsuccessful service should be transferred to the consumer who cares about it the most. This team may rightfully consider themselves to have been left "holding the can," although the deprecation decision also passes into their hands. Other teams that wish not to be left holding the can have an added incentive to migrate or terminate their dependencies. This may sound brutal, but it's an important part of "failing fast."

The boundary between one service and another becomes a set of APIs. The consumer gives up influence over the design of what lies behind those APIs, how that design evolves, and how its data persists, in return for a set of SLAs (service-level agreements) governing the stability of the APIs and their runtime characteristics. Trust can be replaced with a combination of autonomy and accountability.

To determine whether permissionless innovation has been unleashed to the degree possible, a simple test is to look at the prevalence of meetings between teams (as distinct from within teams). Cross-team meetings suggest coordination, coupling, and problems with the granularity or functionality of service interfaces. Engineers don't seek out meetings if they can avoid them; such meetings could mean that a service's APIs aren't all that is needed to integrate. An organization that has embraced permissionless innovation should have a high rate of experimentation and a low rate of cross-team meetings.
