the SQL front-end, responsible for parsing, desugaring, free simplifications and semantic analysis; this comprises the two blocks "Parser" and "Expression analysis" in the overview diagram.

the SQL middle-end, responsible for logical planning and optimization.

the SQL back-end, which comprises "physical planning" and "query execution".

Note that these components are a fictional model: for efficiency and engineering reasons, the the front-end and middle-end are grouped together in the code;



Cockroach doesn't have a common rule interface. Instead, it uses a custom DSL to define the rule's pattern and transformation logic. The code generator analyzes the DSL files and produces a monolithic optimization routine. The code generation may allow for a faster optimizer's code because it avoids virtual calls when calling rules.

There are two rule types in CockroachDB. The normalization rules convert relational operators into canonical forms before being inserted into a MEMO, simplifying the subsequent optimization. An example is a NormalizeNestedAnds rule that normalizes AND expressions into a left-deep tree. The normalization is performed via a sequential invocation of normalization rules. The second category is exploration rules, which generate multiple equivalent plans. The exploration rules are invoked using the cost-based Cascades-like top-down optimization strategy with memoization.

CockroachDB has a ReorderJoins rule to do the join planning. The rule uses a variation of the dynamic programming algorithm described in this paper to enumerate the valid join orders and add them to MEMO

### Life cycle

After a preliminary check of the SQL statements, there are sub-layers including SQL API which is a user interface, parser which transfers SQL statements to Abstract Syntax Tree (AST), cost-based optimizer which transfers AST to optimized logical query plan, physical planner which transfers logical query plan to physical query plan

 perform a series of transformations that transfers a query to the logically equivalent alternative. These alternatives are stored in a compact data structure called a memo.

OptBuild: analyze AST semantically and convert it to a rational expression tree. This part of the code understands SQL and includes resolving DB object names as well as type checking and type inference. An example is illustrated in the Figure below.


Normalize: optimizer has rewritten transformations (normalization rules). These rules convert a rational expression to another equivalent expression that is likely to result in a better plan. Examples are push-down filters, decorrelation, or simplification of unnecessary operators.
Normalization (or “rewrite”) rules are “always a good idea” to apply

Explore: Exploration rules are transformations that generate new relational expressions that are equivalent to starting expressions and which might or might not result in faster execution. For each expression, cockroach DB estimates a cost and at the end of the process and picks the cheapest expression. To efficiently store and process these expressions, cockroach DB uses a memo data structure that organizes expressions into equivalent groups.



